# Design Themes for Khel Tic Tac Toe

I started exploring the Google stitch tool that claims to replace UI designers by making design ideation and prototyping easy and quick.

However, my experience was laborious when i wanted to create variant themes while keeping core elements of this games wireframes intact.

For ex: The homepage of the game will exists for all screens with the following UI elements unaltered:

1. The homepage will consist of a empty profile display icon on top left corner of the wireframe aspect. Next to it the name of the player must appear in a certain font
2. Aligned in the same line on the top right, there would be three icons for chat, game stats in bar char symbol and settings icon
3. A 3x3 unboxed and unbounded grid will appear centrally
4. Coins for the themes will always be in (1x1, 2x2, 3x3) grids and (1x2, 2x3, 3x1) grids
5. Lets play button with text "Lets play" will appear centrally below the grid in rectangular shape

Except the above elements the colour, gradient, coin designs and font schemes keep changing.

# Started with a new project and contexting

I started with defining rules of the 'South Indian- Nayaka Warrior' themed wireframes and specifying the colour schemes, contrasts, buttons, headers, fonts etc. 

I wanted the colours to reflect the lush greens of South India and the golden shine of the shrines majestics.

The coins instead of being simple 'X' and 'O' must be a reflection of something similar. Hence i went for one set of coins resembling the Gopurams marvel in Dravidian- Came slightly close with this.

The second set of coins a circular design in kalamkari art form. i needed them to have an embossed skeleton structure- this was a weird one generated by AI but i made my peace [See designs here](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/19Qs0q-egIBTNXlZ2aRzYwidnpfBKjbqQ)

Setting the design context for first few screens worked for the rest.

# The design.md that should have worked

I downloaded `.md` files of my completed project in hopes of using the same in a new session. Expect i would change the colours and coin structure designs. Rest would be taken care of.
That is where I failed.

<b>Reason:</b> Every  generative image tool (Google Stitch in this case) uses a random seed. This seed gets altered in every new session or project even with a `design.md` file. This makes image generation keeping style constant difficult.

Hence using "refine this image" or "edit" flow to implicitly anchor to the previous seed's latent space with the `.md` file was the only way.

# Why make design moat for a game?
When exploring simple tic tac tow game on app store, i found most apps with games are cluttered with UI! 
Either that, or too much of 'neons' or 'foreign' conceptuated. Nothing seemed Indian enough, simple or nostalgic.
Thats when i decided to make design as my moat and experiment in creating something that feels decluttered and ours. 

Good Design compounds—over time it builds user familiarity, trust, and habit that competitors can’t easily replicate. While features can be copied, a well-crafted user experience is the result of countless micro-decisions across interaction, visual language, and system thinking.

---

**Series** : [Generative AI will not replace UI designers ->](https://github.com/sristiprasad/Blog/blob/main/series/Generative%20AI%20will%20not%20replace%20UI%20designers.md)

# Related

<ul>
  <li><a href="">Final Prototype on Loveable: Creating a working MVP just with design specs using lovable</li> 
</ul>